Q1. What is Git?

ans:- Git is popular version control system(VCS), It was created Linus Torvalds in 2005
and has been maintaned by Junio Hamano

Git is used for:-
1. Tracking code changes
2. Tracking who made changes like histoy of the files
3. Coding Collaborations

Q2. What do you understand by the term 'Version Control System'?
ans:- It is a system that records changes to a file or set of files over time,
so that we can recall specific versions later, i.e, for every source code changes in a file in a 
new version will be created.

Q3. What is GitHub?
ans:- GitHub is an Internet hosting service for software development and version control using Git.
It provides the distributed version control of Git plus access control,
bug tracking, software feature requests, task management, continuous integration, and wikis for every project.
Headquartered in California, it has been a subsidiary of Microsoft since 2018.

Q4. Mention some popular Git hosting services.
There are some most popular git hosting services:-
1. GitHub
2. SourceForge
3. Bitbucket
4. GitLab

Q5. Different types of version control systems
There are 3 types of VCS:-
1. Local Version Control System(LVCS)
2. Centralised Control System(CVCS)
3. Distributed Version Control System(DVCS)

Q6. What beniefits come with using Git?
One of the biggest advantages of Git is its branching capabilities.
Unlike centralized version control systems, Git branches are cheap and easy to merge. 
This facilitates the feature branch workflow popular with many Git users. 
Feature branches provide an isolated environment for every change to your codebase.

Q7. What is Git repository?
A Git repository is the .git/ folder inside a project. 
This repository tracks all changes made to files in your project, building a history over time. 
Meaning, if you delete the .git/ folder, then you delete your project’s history.

Q8. How can you initialize a repository in Git?
To create a new repo, you'll use the git init command. 
git init is a one-time command you use during the initial setup of a new repo. 
Executing this command will create a new .git subdirectory in your current working directory. 
This will also create a new main branch.